TiDB Cloud Security for Password Authentication (#11578)
pingcap/docs: tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-security-password-authentication.md

## Reset a password

If you forget your password, you can reset it by email. The steps are as follows:

1. Go to the TiDB Cloud login page: **www.tidbcloud.com**

2. Click **Forgot password**, and then check your Email for the link to reset the password

> **Note:**
    >
    > This section is only applicable to TiDB Cloud registration with email and password. If you sign up for TiDB Cloud with Google SSO or GitHub SSO, your password is managed by Google or GitHub and you cannot change it using the TiDB Cloud console.

## Change a password

Support password expiration reminder function. If you sign up for TiDB Cloud with email and password, it is recommended that you reset your password every 90 days. To change the password take the following steps: 

1. Click the account name in the upper-right corner of the TiDB Cloud console

2. Click **Account**

3. Click the **Change Password** tab, and then check your Email for TiDB Cloud to reset the password

> **Note:**
    >
    > If your password is not changed within 90 days, you will get a prompt to change your password when you login to TiDB Cloud. It is recommended that you follow the prompt to change password.

> ## Enables MFA (optional)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Enable or disable MFA (optional)
```

> After logging in to TiDB Cloud, you can enable multi-factor authentication(MFA ) in accordance with laws and regulations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After logging in to TiDB Cloud, you can enable multi-factor authentication (MFA) in accordance with laws and regulations.
```

> Two factor authentication adds additional security by requiring an Authenticator app to generate a one-time password for login. You can use any Authenticator app from the iOS or Android App Store to generate this password, such as Google Authenticator and Authy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Two-factor authentication adds additional security by requiring an Authenticator app to generate a one-time password for login. You can use any Authenticator app from the iOS or Android App Store to generate this password, such as Google Authenticator and Authy.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

> **Note:**
>
> Only users who [sign up](https://tidbcloud.com/free-trial) for TiDB Cloud with emails and passwords can enable MFA in TiDB Cloud, and SSO login users are not supported to enable that. If you log in with Google SSO or GitHub SSO, you can enable MFA on your identity management platform, such as GitHub or Google Workspace.

```

### Enable MFA

> The steps to enable MFA are as follows:
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

1. Click <MDSvgIcon name="icon-top-account-settings" /> **Account** in the upper-right corner of the TiDB Cloud console.

2. Click **Account settings**.

3. Click the **Two Factor Authentication** tab.

4. Click **Enable**.

### Disable MFA

> 1. Click **Account**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Click <MDSvgIcon name="icon-top-account-settings" /> **Account** in the upper-right corner of the TiDB Cloud console.
```

> 2. Click the **Two Factor Authentication** tab
> 
> 3. Click the **Disable** tab

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Click **Account settings**.

3. Click the **Two Factor Authentication** tab.

4. Click **Disable**.
```

> > **Note:**
> >
> > Only users who [sign up](https://tidbcloud.com/free-trial) for TiDB Cloud with emails and passwords can enable MFA in TiDB Cloud, and SSO login users are not supported. If you log in with Google SSO or GitHub SSO, you can enable MFA on your identity management platform, such as GitHub or Google Workspace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

---
title: Password Authentication
summary: Learn how to manage passwords and enable multi-factor authentication (MFA) in the TiDB Cloud console.
---

# Password Authentication

This document describes how to manage passwords and enable multi-factor authentication (MFA) in the TiDB Cloud console. The description is applicable to users who [sign up](https://tidbcloud.com/free-trial) for TiDB Cloud with emails and passwords.

## Sign up

> After you sign up an account on TiDB Cloud console, you can manage the password, including reseting and changing the password.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After you sign up an account in the TiDB Cloud console, you can manage the password, including reseting and changing the password.
```

> If you want to manage your TiDB Cloud passwords using the TiDB Cloud console, you can sign up for a TiDB Cloud account using your email and password. 

Reviewer: I checked with @lulukelu about this. This doc provides the signup section also as a placeholder to add more relevant content in the future.  If user want to use TiDB Cloud to manage their password, they must sign up with email and password instead of using SSO.

1. Go to the TiDB Cloud [sign up](https://tidbcloud.com/signup) page and fill in the registration information. 

2. Read Privacy Policy and Services Agreement.

> 3. Check the box to agree **I agree to the Privacy Policy and Services Agreement**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Select **I agree to the Privacy Policy and Services Agreement**.
```
From Google developer documentation guide: ![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/89768198/209638601-3fa463f9-c1a6-4be3-aebf-38d64d832a2f.png)

4. Click **Sign up**.

You will receive a verification email for TiDB Cloud. To complete the whole registration process, check your email box and confirm the registration.

## Sign in or sign out

### Sign in

1. Go to the TiDB Cloud [login](https://tidbcloud.com/) page.

2. Fill in your email and password.

3. Click **Sign In**.

If the login is successful, you will be directed to the TiDB Cloud console page.

### Sign out

> 1. Click the account name in the upper-right corner of the TiDB Cloud console.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Click the <MDSvgIcon name="icon-top-account-settings" /> **Account** in the upper-right corner of the TiDB Cloud console.
```

> 1. Click the <MDSvgIcon name="icon-top-account-settings" /> **Account** in the upper-right corner of the TiDB Cloud console.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Click <MDSvgIcon name="icon-top-account-settings" /> **Account** in the upper-right corner of the TiDB Cloud console.
```

2. Click **Logout**.

## Password policy

TiDB Cloud sets a default password policy for registered users. If your password does not meet the policy, you will get a prompt when you set the password.

> A strong password policy is as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The default password policy is as follows:
```

- At least 8 characters in length.
- At least 1 uppercase letter (A-Z).
- At least 1 lowercase letter (a-z).
- At least 1 number (0-9).
- A new password must not be the same as any of the previous four passwords.

## Reset a password

If you forget your password, you can reset it by email. The steps are as follows:

1. Go to the TiDB Cloud [login](https://tidbcloud.com/) page.

2. Click **Forgot password**, and then check your email for the link to reset the password.

> **Note:**
>

> > This section is only applicable to TiDB Cloud registration with email and password. If you sign up for TiDB Cloud with Google SSO or GitHub SSO, your password is managed by Google or GitHub and you cannot change it using the TiDB Cloud console.

Reviewer 2: Can we move this note forward, for example, to line 53?

> > This section is only applicable to TiDB Cloud registration with email and password. If you sign up for TiDB Cloud with Google SSO or GitHub SSO, your password is managed by Google or GitHub and you cannot change it using the TiDB Cloud console.

Reviewer: +1

## Change a password

TiDB Cloud supports sending password expiration reminders. If you sign up for TiDB Cloud with email and password, it is recommended that you reset your password every 90 days. 

To change the password, take the following steps: 

1. Click the <MDSvgIcon name="icon-top-account-settings" /> **Account** in the upper-right corner of the TiDB Cloud console.

2. Click **Account Settings**.

3. Click the **Change Password** tab, click **Change Password**, and then check your email for TiDB Cloud to reset the password.

> **Note:**
>
> If your password is not changed within 90 days, you will get a prompt to change your password when you log in to TiDB Cloud. It is recommended that you follow the prompt to change your password.

## Enable or disable MFA (optional)

> After logging in to TiDB Cloud, you can enable multi-factor authentication (MFA) in accordance with laws and regulations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After logging in to TiDB Cloud, you can enable MFA in accordance with laws and regulations.
```

Reviewer 2: The full name has been provided in Line 8.

Two-factor authentication adds additional security by requiring an Authenticator app to generate a one-time password for login. You can use any Authenticator app from the iOS or Android App Store to generate this password, such as Google Authenticator and Authy.

> **Note:**
>

> > Only users who [sign up](https://tidbcloud.com/free-trial) for TiDB Cloud with emails and passwords can enable MFA in TiDB Cloud, and SSO login users are not supported to enable that. If you log in with Google SSO or GitHub SSO, you can enable MFA on your identity management platform, such as GitHub or Google Workspace.

Reviewer 2: 同密码管理的 note，建议放到操作前，提前让用户知晓是否适用。

> > Only users who [sign up](https://tidbcloud.com/free-trial) for TiDB Cloud with emails and passwords can enable MFA in TiDB Cloud, and SSO login users are not supported to enable that. If you log in with Google SSO or GitHub SSO, you can enable MFA on your identity management platform, such as GitHub or Google Workspace.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> This section applies only when you [sign up](https://tidbcloud.com/free-trial) for TiDB Cloud with emails and passwords. If you sign up for TiDB Cloud with Google SSO or GitHub SSO, you can enable MFA on your identity management platform, such as GitHub or Google Workspace.
```

---
title: Password Authentication
summary: Learn how to sign up, sign in and sign out.
---

# Password Authentication

> Users may login in TiDB Cloud Console via Email and password. It mainly includes steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you [sign up](https://tidbcloud.com/free-trial) for TiDB Cloud with email and password, you can manage your passwords according to this document.
```

> 
> - Step1: sign up
> - Step2: sign in and sign out
> - Step3: Password policy
> - Step4: Reset and change Password
> - Step5: Enables MFA (optional)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> 

Reviewer: Because this document is about Password Authentication, step-by-step instructions about sign-up, sign-in, and sign-out are not needed for it.

> ## Setp1: sign up
> 
> To sign up for a TiDB Cloud account, please click on the [TiDB Cloud homepage](https://tidbcloud.com/signup).
> 
> 1. Enter the following information:
> 
> 2. Read Privacy Policy and Services Agreement
> 
> 3. Check the box to agree **I agree to the Privacy Policy and Services Agreement**
> 
> 4. Click **Sign up** to complete your account registration
> 
> You will receive a verification email for TiDB Cloud, when you check your Email address and confirm in order to complete the whole registration process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer: Because this document is about Password Authentication, step-by-step instructions about sign-up, sign-in, and sign-out are not needed for it.

> ## Setp2: sign in and sign out
> 
> ### Sign In
> 
> 1. Go to the TiDB Cloud login page: **www.tidbcloud.com**
> 
> 2. Fill in your **Email** and **Password**
> 
> 3. Click **Sign In**
> 
> 4. Login is successful, jump to TiDB Cloud Console
> 
> ### Sign Out
> 
> 1. Click the account name in the upper-right corner of the TiDB Cloud console
> 
> 2. Click **Logout**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer: Because this document is about Password Authentication, step-by-step instructions about sign-up, sign-in, and sign-out are not needed for it.

> ## Setp3: Password Policy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Password Policy
```

> TiDB Cloud sets a default password policy for registered users, and automatically detects the complexity of the entered password and prompts it. A strong password policy is as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TiDB Cloud sets a default password policy for registered users. If your password does not meet the policy, you will get a prompt when you set the password.

A strong password policy is as follows:
```

> - At least 8 characters in length.
> - At least 1 uppercase letter(A-Z)
> - At least 1 lowercase letter(a-z)
> - At least 1 numbers(0-9)
> - The new password must not be the same as any of the previous four passwords

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- At least 8 characters in length.
- At least 1 uppercase letter(A-Z).
- At least 1 lowercase letter(a-z).
- At least 1 numbers(0-9).
- A new password must not be the same as any of the previous four passwords.
```

> ## Setp4: Reset And Change Password
> 
> ### Reset Password

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Reset Password
```

If you forget your password, you can reset it by email. The steps are as follows:

1. Go to the TiDB Cloud login page: **www.tidbcloud.com**

2. Click **Forgot password**, and then check your Email for the link to reset the password

> **Note:**
    >
    > This section is only applicable to TiDB Cloud registration with email and password. If you sign up for TiDB Cloud with Google SSO or GitHub SSO, your password is managed by Google or GitHub and you cannot change it using the TiDB Cloud console.

> ### Change Password

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Change a password
```

Support password expiration reminder function. If you sign up for TiDB Cloud with email and password, it is recommended that you reset your password every 90 days. To change the password take the following steps: 

1. Click the account name in the upper-right corner of the TiDB Cloud console

2. Click **Account**

3. Click the **Change Password** tab, and then check your Email for TiDB Cloud to reset the password

> **Note:**
    >
    > If your password is not changed within 90 days, you will get a prompt to change your password when you login to TiDB Cloud. It is recommended that you follow the prompt to change password.

> ## Setp5: Enables MFA (optional)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Enables MFA (optional)
```

> After signing in, you can enable multi-factor authentication(MFA ) in accordance with laws and regulations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After logging in to TiDB Cloud, you can enable multi-factor authentication(MFA ) in accordance with laws and regulations.
```

> Two factor authentication adds additional security by requiring an Authenticator app to generate a one-time password to log in. You may use any Authenticator app from the iOS or Android App Store to generate this password, for example: Google Authenticator, Authy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Two factor authentication adds additional security by requiring an Authenticator app to generate a one-time password for login. You can use any Authenticator app from the iOS or Android App Store to generate this password, such as Google Authenticator and Authy.
```

### Enable MFA

The steps to enable MFA are as follows:

> 1. Click the account name in the upper-right corner of the TiDB Cloud console

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Click <MDSvgIcon name="icon-top-account-settings" /> **Account** in the upper-right corner of the TiDB Cloud console.
```

> 2. Click **Account**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Click **Account settings**.
```

> 3. Click the **Two Factor Authentication** tab

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Click the **Two Factor Authentication** tab.
```

> 4. Click the **Enable** tab

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Click **Enable**.
```

### Disable MFA

1. Click **Account**

2. Click the **Two Factor Authentication** tab

3. Click the **Disable** tab

> > **Note:**
>     >
>     > Only registered users can enable MFA in TiDB Cloud, and SSO login users are not supported. If you log in with Google SSO or GitHub SSO, please enable MFA on your identity management platform, such as GitHub or Google work space.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note:**
>
> Only users who [sign up](https://tidbcloud.com/free-trial) for TiDB Cloud with emails and passwords can enable MFA in TiDB Cloud, and SSO login users are not supported. If you log in with Google SSO or GitHub SSO, you can enable MFA on your identity management platform, such as GitHub or Google Workspace.
```
